# Sudoku-Generate-AP-CSA-Project
A simple program that generates a randomized fully solved valid sudoku board when run 
Simply press the run button to run
The Soduku board is initially generated by shifting the inital row and adding the next hifted ow to a 2D array. The board is then randomized by swapping two random digits and by shuffling rows and columns in groups of three, keeping them in the same band and stack. The board is then formatted and pinted.
Files included are Sudoku.java and the design document.
First, the program generates an initial starting board that is randomized later by a different method. The generateBoard method has the first row pre-written in an array, and the rest of the board is generated. The method then loops through the 2D board array and shifts each element across the row (start + j - 1. % 9 + 1 makes the shifting wrap around when it reaches 9 so that the numbers cycle through 1-9. This produces a valid solved sudoku board that serves as a template so that it can be randomized by randomizeBoard. randomizeBoard consists of the shuffleRows, swapRows, ShuffleCols, swapCols, and swapRandomDigits. shuffleRows swaps the bands, which are groups of three numbers in the same row, inside each row. The swapping part is done by swapRows which is called by shuffleRows, whereas shuffleRows itself just iterates through the row and selects the random ints. shuffleCols and swapCols work almost exactly the same, except they swap the stacks within each column instead. swapRandomDigits simply selects two random ints between 1 and 9 until both are different from each other and then replaces every instance of int a with int b and every instance of int b with int a. Finally, the printBoard method formats the 2D array and prints out the borders around the numbers along with the numbers themselves. 

